# Jupyter Community Building Working Group 2024 Meeting Minutes

## 12 December 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan
* Discussed a pitch to EC/Jupyter Foundation governing board about an events program. Fleshed out a basic budget proposal for 5-7 subproject events in 2025 (including program management help).

## 5 December 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan
* Continued work on creating a proposal for the Jupyter foundation for a new structure for Jupyter Community Workshops. Current thoughts:
   * Who could apply? Subproject councils, SSC, working groups, standing committees, EC.
   * Who approves the program global budget? Jupyter Foundation governing board.
   * Who would help support logistics? Get quote from LF for event management services.


## 14 November 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan
* Continued work on creating a proposal for the Jupyter foundation for a new structure for Jupyter Community Workshops

## 7 November 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan
* Short meeting (30 minutes)
* Brainstormed new structure for Jupyter Community Workshops

## 31 October 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan
* Conducted a test of the LF Zoom channel and discussed the process for launching a new resource to the community. Focused on what would be the easiest thing for everyone and decided to avoid creating any new processes that have to be centrally managed.. 
* Generated a list of questions for LF to answer related to channel logistics.
* Reviewed recommendations and next steps from Community Report. Additional brainstorming / work on Recommendation 1 from report (Create a sustainable events program for subprojects). Current frame for our thoughts is what can the EC/SSC/JCB do to respond to this recommendation. 

## 24 October 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan
* Reviewed recommendations and next steps from Community Report. Additional brainstorming / work on community report. Current frame for our thoughts is what can the EC/SSC/JCB do to respond to this recommendation. We decided to focus and prioritize Recommendation 2: Establish a mechanism for requesting resources.
  
## 17 October 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan

* Updated charter to remove NumFOCUS from JCB charter: https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/238  (pending approval from EC)
* Revisited report to the EC and made a plan to send it in January of 2025.

## 10 October 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan

* Discussed take-aways from the EC discussion of the JCB survey report
* Reviewed priorities that have been on hold due to a focus on report writing. Two items we’ve put on hold was a review of our charter and working group activity report to the EC. 

## 3 October 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan

* Continued discussion of ideas for how to translate recommendations from Community Building report into action items for this committee, the EC, and the SSC. 
* Prep for discussion with EC about Community Report https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N5jm0VJlDUX4WK0n7Ia8Ff63RdzNYkH28PkSZPdBtUc/edit#heading=h.o2nbpymvtd6t

## 26 September 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan

* Martha sent email to SSC to share community building report
* Continued discussion of ideas for how to translate recommendations from Community Building report into action items for this committee

## 19 September 2024
* Discussed ideas for how to translate recommendations from Community Building report into action items for this committee
* Brainstormed how to continue to amplify the reach or the number of people who have read the report

## 12 September 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Martha Cryan

* Reviewed Community Building Report - discussed ideas for how to increase impact and how to translate recommendations into action items for this committee
* Recognizing that some of the recommendations are highly dependant on funding and support from the Executive Council
* Brainstormed and speculated on what timelines we may be facing for introducing new programs or opportunities for the community. We may not be able to take action until 2025 and Jupyter is mid process of moving from NumFOCUS to Linux Charities and spinning up a new foundation. 

## 29 August 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout

* Final editing of report and blog post
* Blog post submitted to Jupyter Media Strategy group for approval
* Final report pdf uploaded to the JCB team compass

## 22 August 2024
Attendees: Ana Ruvalcaba, Jason Grout, Martha Cryan

* Reviewed Community Report and blog post for announcement. We’re in the final publishing stage.

## 15 August 2024
* Reviewed Community Report and made a plan for next meeting. We’re in the final proofreading stage.

## 7 August 2024
Canceled due to lack of availability of 2 out of 3 team members. 

## 1 August 2024
* Updated Leadership Directory: https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/234 , opened issue on Team Compass to request review
* Reviewed changes to the executive summary of the Community Census Report
* Removed Rollin from Leadership Directory, Google Group, and calendar invite
* Address remaining comments in the report
* Discussed publishing process for Community Census Report

## 24 July 2024
* Approved minutes from July - got caught up on backlog of public minutes
* Updated affiliation for Rollin on Leadership directory to “former leadership” and reached out to confirm he’s ready to be removed from the mailing list and the calendar entry
* Review checklist for Community Census Report 
  * Review next steps on Executive Summary and Ana’s content
  * Ana added some text to the acknowledgements section.
  * Made a plan for next week

## 18 July 2024
* Made progress on checklist for Community Census Report 
  * Finished editing and reviewing Recommendation 4
  * Changed Conclusion section to Acknowledgements
  * Reviewed outline for Executive Summary

## 11 July 2024
Cancelled due to lack of availability of team.

## 3 July 2024
* Reviewed checklist for completion of Community Census Report 
  * Confirmed open items and next steps. 
* Reviewed and edited recommendation 1 and 2
* Created outline for Executive Summary, began brainstorming length and content
* Reviewed schedules and availability
  * Moving forward Rollin can respond asynchronously as time permits
  * Jason is OOO from (July 10 - Aug 7 or so)

## 27 June 2024
* Community Census Report: talked through recommendations for the onboarding recommendation. Rollin created a checklist for publishing, and we edited and added to it during the meeting. 
* We also discussed how and where we would publish this report. We converged on adding an Executive Summary on our Team Compass and put a link to the PDF. We could then publish that link to a Discourse post. 

## 20 June 2024
* Discussed recommendations for Community Census Report, made good progress on recommendations section and made a plan for writing up remaining content. We’re about ¾ done with writing this report.
* Offboarding: due to work commitments, Rollin Thomas  is planning to exit the committee this month. We thank him for his contributions! His leadership and the time dedicated toward this working group’s effort to conduct community interviews and the report summarizing the results are incredibly valuable to the Jupyter community.  

## 13 June 2024
The meeting 6/13/24 was canceled due to 3 out of the 4 committee members being unable to join. 

## 6 June 2024
* Community Report: per our charter, this working group has quarterly reports due to the Executive Council and an annual blog post for the community. The working group has revised this process to include two reports annually for both the community and the EC. The EC report may include non public portions. In this meeting we finalized content for publishing the EC report for the second half of 2023. This report is past due and is the first public report this working group will generate. 
* Start the EC report for 2024 H1
* Discuss recommendations for Community Census Report

## 30 May 2024
* Communicate to community about public minutes: will create a post on Discourse
* Working group reviewed the report in progress resulting from interviews conducted with each Jupyter Subproject. In this meeting we discussed and flesh out specific recommendations from the JCB survey report. Current areas of discussion:
  * Establishing a budget request process for subprojects to request funds/resources from EC
  * Regular program of cross-subproject virtual and in-person meetings

## 23 May 2024
* EC Reports: We reviewed and discussed 2023 H2 (second half of 2023) and discussed 2024 H1. This led to discussion surrounding cadence of reports and led to a bigger conversation about transparency and weekly minutes. 
* Transparency: Improving transparency for this working group
* Public minutes need to be established. Jason will create a place in the EC team compass for our weekly public minutes
* Reviewed options for publishing minutes on GH
  * POV of non engineer - GH is not user friendly, can be confusing
  * Maintainer Summit - Jason attended
    * Jason feels like we have GH’s ear about feedback we want to give about functionality and features. If we encounter issues we should keep that in mind. Figure out what our top ask is if we want to submit. 
* Community Interviews: Tabled the discussion of recommendations in the community survey report in favor of discussion above
