# Meeting Notes from 2023

## 2 May 2023

### Attendees
- Jason Grout
- Fernando Perez
- Steve Silvester
- Brian Granger
- Afshin Darian
- Ana Ruvalcaba

### Decisions made
- EC-funded travel to JupyterCon should be pulled from CBC Account

### Agenda and minutes
- Review Team Todo List
- Review Team Compass - no new issues
- Review emails to EC Google Group - no new emails
- Work on JupyterCon talk
- Follow up on Notebook 7 blog post

---

## 25 April 2023

### Attendees
- Fernando Perez
- Afshin T. Darian
- Steven Silvester
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Brian Granger
- Jason Grout

### Decisions made
- Sync with Notebook Subproject about vision of Jupyter Notebook talk and blog post

### Agenda and minutes
- Review team compass
- Review emails to EC Google Group
- JupyterCon in-person meeting planning
- Media Relations topics and draft charter iteration
- JupyterCon talk - continued to work on content ideas

---

## 18 April 2023

### Attendees
- Afshin T. Darian
- Brian Granger
- Steven Silvester
- Jason Grout
- Ana Ruvalcaba

### Agenda and minutes
- EC/SSC meeting(s) agenda
- Worked on the media relations working group charter draft

---

## 11 April 2023

### Attendees
- Jason Grout
- Fernando Perez
- Afshin T. Darian
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Brian Granger

### Agenda and minutes
- EC/SSC meeting(s) agenda
- JupyterCon talk - iterate on content ideas

---

## 4 April 2023

### Attendees
- Afshin T. Darian
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steven Silvester
- Fernando Perez
- Jason Grout
- Brian Granger

### Decisions made
- CoC: we'll work toward the goals of:
    - Using the NF CoC documents for in-person events as much as possible.
    - Will review them to see what differences we may have and provide NF feedback as appropriate.
    - Then we'd try to update our online activity CoC to be derived from this one.

### Agenda and minutes
- COC update and review
- Jupyter Communications Working Group draft charter review
- Mission, Vision, Values review

---

## 28 March 2023

### Attendees
- Afshin T. Darian
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steven Silvester
- Jason Grout
- Fernando Perez
- Brian Granger

### Decisions made
- Steve and Ana bootstrap the Social Media Working Group as Editors-in-Chief. They will nominate a pool of Associate Editors to manage most individual decisions.
    - They will create a draft of the charter/guidelines for social media and start the bootstrapping of people for that WG.

### Agenda and minutes
- JupyterCon travel funding update
- Brief update on CoC committee
    - CoC language hasn't been reviewed since its inception.
    - Maybe worth reviewing/updating based on experience and evolution in this space.
    - For JupyterCon, we'll be under the NF umbrella in this regard.
    - As of this moment, any CoC issue would come to the EC.
    - Given we're already using the NF one - could we potentially adopt it wholesale? It's an option to at least evaluate.
    - Another suggestion from astropy (Moritz Gunther): NF create an ombuds office that supports individual projects that may struggle with CoC issues.
- Update on social media working group
- Update on permissions
- DEI Charter feedback provided directly on the GH issue:
  https://github.com/jupyter/executive-council-team-compass/issues/6

---

## 21 March 2023

### Attendees
- Afshin T. Darian
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steven Silvester
- Jason Grout
- Fernando Perez
- Brian Granger

### Decisions made
- Communicate to EC+SSC that there is a meeting May 9 at JupyterCon, Tuesday afternoon, noon to after dinner, including lunch and dinner.
- Offer to each subproject to designate a delegate if their SSC rep cannot come to the EC+SSC meeting. We can offer funding (if needed) for the delegate.
- Update the passwords and authorized apps for our social media where possible (particularly Twitter) and start working on the policy that would be the seed of a charter.

### Agenda and minutes
- AI and ethics blog post
- Leadership meeting / dinner at JupyterCon - what is scope?
- Social media questions and sponsorship conversation to help shape a charter

---

## 14 March 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steven Silvester
- Afshin T. Darian
- Jason Grout
- Brian Granger
- Fernando Perez

### Agenda and minutes
- Open Collective (OC) Demo/Discussion notes
    - It's possible to set up different accounting "areas" (not called "accounts" in OC lingo).
    - Overwhelmingly positive response.
    - There haven't been concerns over privacy or access to information from any of the projects using it.
    - OC does not integrate with Quickbooks.
    - High level summary
        - OC provides not only a public view, but also input and communication capabilities for project

---

## 7 March 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steven Silvester
- Jason Grout
- Afshin T. Darian
- Brian Granger
- Fernando Pérez

### Decisions made
- Funding some JupyterCon participants
- JupyterCon: Tuesday afternoon meeting and dinner
- JupyterCon: 2024 - approved signing of contract for next year’s organizing committee and venue.

### Agenda and minutes
- Permissions audit of 1Password, Google Drive, and GitHub teams
- Notebook Format Jupyter Community Workshop update
- Built agenda for Friday meeting: Joint Meetings of the EC and SSC
- JupyterCon special talks
    - Notebook and Lab have official talks.

---

## 28 February 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steven Silvester
- Fernando Pérez
- Brian Granger
- Afshin Darian

### Decisions made
- Fernando - send email to the security team about domains. Proposed scope of authority would be 1 EC member + 1 person from the infrastructure team.
- New schedule for EC meetings selected.
- Request NF join a future EC meeting: present and demo Open Collective. Consider this as a potential solution. If there is a write up or summary they’ve written this could be a good starting point

### Agenda and minutes
- DEI Charter - Jason W and Ana shared feedback with the others and this team will dedicate working time to an in depth review and revision of the proposed charter.
- Community Building Working Group would like to conduct a community census. We’re working on a draft of what questions would be included. Besides a Team Compass and a mailing list what are the requirements of the subprojects? Do we have a central place where all the subproject info is listed?
- Accessibility blog post

---

## 21 February 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steven Silvester
- Fernando Pérez
- Brian Granger
- Jason Grout

### Decisions made
- Meeting notes should be public on team compass, except for private items highlighted to be filtered out.
- Will start with one running document for now, we can make quarterly ones if a single one gets too long.
- Publish every month or two a summary list of our active topics for that period, copied from our active task list.
- Will send a survey looking for scheduling options for an EC/SSC meeting co-hosted at JupyterCon (either before or after the conference).

### Agenda and minutes
- EC Meeting minutes:
    - The EC meeting minutes should in general be published on our team compass.
    - Example minutes from the Python Steering Council: https://discuss.python.org/t/november-2022-steering-council-update/21920
- Review todo list for EC
- Review Survey to the EC/SSC about JupyterCon
    - Ask EC/SSC members to plan for opportunities for a joint leadership meeting @ JupyterCon.
    - Reviewing options for offering financial travel support.
- Worked on the DEI Committee Charter

---

## 14 February 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Afshin Darian
- Fernando Perez
- Brian Granger
- Jason Grout
- Steven Silvester

### Decisions made
- Code of Conduct incident response:
    - We have an action item to establish the Code of Conduct incident response Standing Committee.
    - While we work through that, we reviewed the existing incident response email and Google forms to ensure they are being sent to the Executive Council in the meantime.
- Need to finalize finance review of overall financial resources so we can prioritize decisions.

### Agenda and minutes
- COC: reviewed processes for submitting issues and tested emails to `conduct@jupyter.org`
- Reviewed various Google Drives at NF and better organized content

---

## 7 Feburary 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steve Silvester
- Afshin Darian
- Brian Granger
- Fernando Perez

### Agenda and minutes
- Prioritization, agenda management, and other logistics discussion
    - We are starting to use the RICE prioritization framework to prioritize our projects and to-do items.
- Future JupyterCon agenda proposal - there is value in establishing communication with the community through JupyterCon for the new structure, how should we reflect it in the conference?

---

## 31 January 2023

### Attendees
- Jason Grout
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steve Silvester
- Afshin Darian
- Brian Granger
- Fernando Perez

### Agenda and minutes
- Incubation process and contrib orgs
    - There is ongoing confusion about the contrib (jupyterlab-contrib) orgs that we need to address.
    - Obviously, anyone is free to do open source work outside of Jupyter. However, the jupyterlab-contrib org is owned by JupyterLab Council members, official Jupyter work is being done there, and council members are recommending that early stage JupyterLab and Jupyter Server work be done there.
        - For example, https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit has been approved by the JupyterLab council as the official UI toolkit for JupyterLab
        - See https://github.com/jupyterlab/team-compass/issues/172 for another example.
    - Essentially, jupyterlab-contrib is functioning as an incubator org for JupyterLab, and this is confusing users and developers.
    - The confusion is problematic as jupyterlab-contrib has no code-of-conduct, no governance, and some Jupyter contributors can’t (legally) contribute to jupyterlab-contrib.
    - The root cause is that the Jupyter incubator program is essentially dormant/dead.
    - Reviving the incubator program and figuring out what to do with the contrib orgs would be a great thing for the SSC to dive into.
    - https://github.com/jupyter-incubator - an official place in Project Jupyter for incubating projects, listed in the governance docs
- Creating opportunities for EC+SSC to meet
    - Fundraising
    - JupyterCon in-person meeting for EC+SSC
        - Starting point would be to define a set of desired outcomes / agenda, we can then decide how much time we need and what format would be best
        - Should be after, not before
        - Hopefully not during sprints, as the SSC members may really want to be at the sprints

---

## 24 January 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Steve Silvester
- Afshin Darian
- Jason Grout
- Brian Granger

### Decisions made
    - EC Project Management using a shared spreadsheet
    - We will have a public team compass repository with publishable meeting minutes

### Agenda and minutes
- SSC Meeting: Creating opportunities for EC+SSC to meet
    - Fundraising
    - JupyterCon in-person meeting for EC+SSC
        - Starting point would be to define a set of desired outcomes / agenda, we can then decide how much time we need and what format would be best
        - Should be after, not before
        - Hopefully not during sprints, as the SSC members may really want to be at the sprints
        - Maybe have dinner one of the nights
        - Maybe have the afternoon of Tuesday, then dinner Tuesday night?
        - Because of COVID, consider making the dinner outdoors
- Have another regular meeting. 1 day of EC+SSC, then one or two days of broader Union of Councils meetings. Perhaps one day for subproject councils to meet (there there is lots of overlap)
- Suppose we fundraise to have each subproject council to meet once a year?

---

## 17 January 2023

### Attendees:
- Steve Silvester
- Afshin Darian
- Jason Grout
- Fernando Perez

### Decisions made
- Social media team
    - Should it be a working group?
        - Steve, Darian, Jason: Yes
    - Should it have an SSC rep?
        - Steve, Darian, Jason: No

### Agenda/Minutes
- SSC formation
    - Worked on an agenda for first joint meeting of the SSC and EC
- Code of conduct
    - Discussion on charter draft
- Bootstrapping working groups
    - We think of 2-3 key people that we invite, then let them grow that team themselves
    - Create a draft charter to have some idea of scope, like 80% done with major things outlined. This charter is committed to the governance docs with a note that it is a draft.
    - Let the initial people finalize the charter in conjunction with the EC, say over the first 6 months
- Discussion on social media team charter

---

## 11 January 2023

### Attendees
- Darian
- Brian
- Jason
- Steve
- Fernando
- Sylvain

### Decisions made
- We will record decisions in a new “Decisions made” section of the meeting minutes to keep things lightweight, but explicit.
- We created a separate document for the meeting minutes of the EC Office Hours.

### Agenda/Minutes
- Announcing EC formation
    - Fernando sent an email to the existing Steering Council announcing.
    - Worked on [blog post](https://blog.jupyter.org/announcing-a-new-jupyter-governance-model-and-our-first-executive-council-39b3989dc064) draft
- How can we help the SSC to organize?
    - Schedule joint EC + SSC meeting where we can talk about the purpose of SSC
- Default meeting transparency: Anyone can attend, but we ask non-council members to ask their questions in chat
    - If we need formal structure, we can perhaps use the zoom webinars with council members as panelists
- Governance related repos/orgs
    - Auditing access to repos/orgs
    - New repo for the EC?
- Social media strategy (prompted by https://github.com/jupyter/governance/issues/146 and mastodon conversation)
- Jupyter domain
    - Can we use the jupyter.org domain with the NumFOCUS Google Suite?
