# Meeting notes from 2024

## 16 July 2024

### Attendees

* Fernando Pérez
* Ana Ruvalcaba
* Brian Granger
* Zach Sailer

### Notes

* Reviewed, discussed and moved to merge PR 226
* We discussed the question, “Who has the authority to resolve ambiguity in our governance docs, particularly in time sensitive scenarios?” We should propose an answer in a PR to our governance (requiring a vote of UoC).
* Met with the Linux Foundation team to discuss next steps. 
* Reviewed checklist of items needed to move forward with terminating fiscal sponsorship agreement with NumFOCUS. 

## 09 July 2024

### Attendees

* Fernando Pérez
* Jason Grout
* Ana Ruvalcaba
* A. T. Darian

### Notes

* We posted more information about the process the EC took in arriving at the LF proposal to be more open and transparent about the process.
* We drafted some project updates for the Scipy tools plenary update we will share with the group presenting.

## 02 July 2024

### Attendees
* A. T. Darian
* Jason Grout
* Ana Ruvalcaba
* Brian Granger

### Notes
* Approved meeting minutes from the last week
* Discussed several EC team compass issues
* Discussed the recent Jupyter Media Strategy office hour meeting and the "What is Jupyter" draft blog post. Agreed next step is for the Docs Working Group to follow up with the EC. See notes from EC Office hours [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N5jm0VJlDUX4WK0n7Ia8Ff63RdzNYkH28PkSZPdBtUc/edit\#heading=h.hc2eqn3grpa6)
* Reviewed amendments to the Jupyter Foundation charter with LF
* Met with Linux Foundation representatives to discuss current Jupyter Foundation charter and any other things needed before moving to a vote in community about potentially moving to LF

## 28 June 2024

Ad-hoc meeting to make progress on [governance PR 226](https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/226) 

### Attendees
* Ana Ruvalcaba
* Jason Grout
* Zach Sailer

### Notes

* Project planning: continued work through items on checklist to vote on [governance PR 226](https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/226)
* Worked on a diagram of body and responsibilities to clarify the high-level view of the governance after the PR
* Discussed some potential additions to the Jupyter Foundation charter

## 27 June 2024

Ad-hoc meeting to make progress on [governance PR 226](https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/226) 

### Attendees
* Ana Ruvalcaba
* Jason Grout
* Zach Sailer

### Notes

* Focused on project planning: continued work from the day before to build our checklist 

## 25 June 2024

Ad-hoc meeting to make progress on governance PR 226

### Attendees
* Ana Ruvalcaba
* Jason Grout

### Notes

* Created a checklist for moving [governance PR 226](https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/226) from draft mode to voting stage
* Reviewed changes to Governance repo to ensure content aligns with what is in the Jupyter Foundation charter. See resulting work here: [https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/226/commits/fed15de2b303c110b016bb62fe1bcd15f7227211](https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/226/commits/fed15de2b303c110b016bb62fe1bcd15f7227211)

## 25 June 2024

### Attendees

* A. T. Darian
* Jason Grout
* Ana Ruvalcaba
* Zach Sailer
* Brian Granger

### Notes

* Met with the LF to confirm that we can link to the draft charter in the governance PR and move ahead to the voting phase as soon as we are ready
* Worked on the draft governance PR and resolved outstanding comments, updated the language. We still need to link the draft charter.


## 18 June 2024

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Afshin Darian
- Zach Sailer
- Jason Grout
- Brian Granger

### Notes

- Met with Linux Foundation to continue drafting the Jupyter Foundation charter.
- Updated the [LF proposal governance PR](https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/226) to streamline it down to just changes related to the move to Linux Foundation. Moved administrative changes to [another PR](https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/228).
- Added a follow-up in the code of conduct incident log – which arose from Zach asking about a public issue that we discussed in the EC but did not have any note of what happened in the follow-up.
- Discussed next steps for the [Jupyter Book subproject proposal](https://github.com/jupyter/enhancement-proposals/pull/123). Jason posted [a comment on behalf of the EC](https://github.com/jupyter/enhancement-proposals/pull/123#issuecomment-2176567556) asking that a governance PR be opened as a next step for the EC to vote on the proposal.
- Request for feedback from Jupyter Media Strategy (JMS) Documentation Working Group write up of “What is Jupyter”. Ana will share feedback with JMS.

## 11 June 2024

### Attendees

- Afshin Darian
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Jason Grout

###  Notes
- Met with Linux Foundation representatives about the Jupyter Foundation charter and discussed many specific points from our review over the last week or two.
- Discussed and edited work-in-progress PR for Jupyter governance about moving to the Linux Foundation for community vote

## 4 June 2024

### Attendees

- Afshin Darian
- Brian Granger
- Jason Grout
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Zach Sailer

###  Notes

* Brian has been out in the recent meetings due to a personal matter, so we spent some time at the top of the call and caught him up with meeting minute protocol, proposed LF governance PR, and other recent activity
* Discussed and edited work-in-progress PR for Jupyter governance about moving to the Linux Foundation for community vote
* Met with Linux Foundation leaders about the charter for the Jupyter Foundation
* Discussed messaging for companies to join the Jupyter Foundation
* Briefly discussed the possibility of an outside legal review of Linux Foundation documents
* Discussed the [broken redirect for ipython.nbviewer.org](http://ipython.nbviewer.org/)
  * Zach is investigating this.
* Jason responding to [Issue 31](https://github.com/jupyter-governance/ec-team-compass/issues/31) in EC Team Compass

## 28 May 2024

### Attendees

- Jason Grout
- Fernando Perez
- Zach Sailer
- Afshin Darian
- Ana Ruvalcaba

### Notes

* Continued work on creating a PR for the EC/SSC voting about moving to Linux Foundation
* Met with Linux Foundation folks to ask questions regarding the Jupyter Foundation and its governing body, as well as to clarify the entities, relationships, and responsibilities of LF, LF Charities, Project Jupyter, and the Jupyter Foundation.
* We discussed (but have not yet voted on) the EC raising the quorum and approval requirements for EC votes about governance change even if the decision-making guide provides a low quorum and decision-making threshold.

## 21 May 2024

### Attendees
- Jason Grout
- Fernando Perez
- Zach Sailer
- Afshin Darian
- Ana Ruvalcaba

### Notes

* Discussed specifics of our structure if we create the Jupyter Foundation, in preparation for the EC governance proposal for vote.
* Discussed communicating to the community about JupyterCon financial results and future. A more detailed post is forthcoming, once we wrap up the logistical details with NumFOCUS.
* Discussed that the EC needs to be better at taking notes and posting them publicly for transparency. Moving forward, we will be releasing public minutes more diligently.
