# Office Hours from 2023 Q1

## March 23 2023

### Attendees
- Brian E Granger
- Afshin T. Darian
- Sylvain Corlay
- Jason Weill
- Jason Grout

### Agenda and minutes
- Review and discuss Mission, Vision, Values draft
- Discuss recent work and blog post on Jupyter AI
- Social media working group update

---

## 28 Feb 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Jason Weill
- Steve Silvester
- A. T. Darian
- Andrii Ieroshenko
- Fernando Pérez

### Agenda and minutes
- JupyterCon updates:
    - GitHub keynote
        - We would love to highlight the work of one or more members of the Jupyter community that takes place on GitHub. Are there any particular projects you would like us to highlight that show off the power of Jupyter to bring a community of people together around data that we could include in our talk?
        - Consider Serena’s work in the Musculoskeletal Imaging Research community https://blog.jupyter.org/report-on-the-jupyter-community-workshop-77016ab1d49b
- Generative AI in Jupyter blog post outline for discussion
    - EC members who are interested (Fernando and Darian) will give feedback
    - 800 - 1000 is the ideal length for a blog post so multiple articles are probably needed to fully address the topic - the ethical framing of this topic is the most critical one. It’s important to address this topic but it’s more important to get the message right rather than soon.
    - Define what is the CTA for this blog? What is the goal of the post?
- Office hours changes/updates
    - Thursdays at 10am Pacific starting on March 23
    - Canceled for the next two weeks, alternating to every other week
    - EC may need to use a different channel to not conflict with the Juptyer triage meeting





---

## 21 Feb 2023

### Attendees
- Jason Weill
- Jason Grout
- Steve Silvester
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Sharan Foga
- Sylvain Corlay
- Fernando Perez

### Agenda and minutes
- Generative AI blog post update
- Martha submitted a (draft) PR for the DEI standing committee: https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/160

---

## 14 Feb 2023

### Attendees
- No community participants

---

## 7 Feb 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Matthias Bussonnier

### Agenda and minutes
- Security/Tidelift/Numfocus: As you may remember I (Matthias) signed with tidelift for IPython/Traitlet - we have/had our first vulnerability via tidelift, not critical. Would it be possible to check with NF if they actually receive Tidelift money. It is still unclear to me. It was originally asked for this money to go to a “security specific” sub account.
- JupyterCon
    - Discussion surrounding the “official” Jupyter voice at the conference
    - Talks by JupyterHub, JupyterLab, and Jupyter Notebook
    - Governance/EC update
    - Lightning talks batched together by official subprojects
    - Official messaging can be communicated through electronic signage at the venue. Deadline for content TBD.
    - 3 large auditoriums and 8 small classrooms (too small for tracks)

---

## 31 Jan 2023

### Attendees
- ???

### Agenda and minutes
- The EC mentioned a couple of weeks ago that to contact them opening an issue on one of the governance repo was a proper method of contact. This can be found on the EC page.  I don’t think this is the case, as https://github.com/jupyter/jupyter.github.io/pull/718 was not replied to.
    - merged
- The above mentioned page, “Email the EC mailing list (this list is private but open for posting)”. But I can’t find the email to the executive council easily.
    - fixed in https://github.com/jupyter/governance/pull/155, now deployed.
- I suggest that those EC office hours meeting (or the previous hour) have an agenda item of checking:
    - The governance repo for new/unreplied issues.
    - The google group for new/unreplied issues.
- JupyterCon Check In
- Jupyter incubator in the short term: https://github.com/jupyterlab/team-compass/issues/172
- These are the docs that govern this today:
    - https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/proposals
    - https://github.com/jupyter/governance/blob/main/newsubprojects.md
- Aspects that need to be updated:
    - How CoC is handled.
    - SSC instead of SC as decision-making body.
    - How to handle “SC sponsor” aspect.
    - Who is the decision making body for each incubated project?
    - What to do about incubator projects that are bit rotting (sparkmagic)?
    - Do we need to renaming this program to attract more contributions (e.g. from jupyterlab-contrib).
    - What is the eventual home for the repo?

---

## 24 Jan 2023

### Attendees
- Ana Ruvalcaba
- Jason Grout
- Steve Silvester
- Matthias Bussonnier
- Brian Granger
- Afshin Darian
- Fernando Pérez
- Jason Weill

### Agenda and minutes

- Jupyter generative AI project
    - This brings up the question: Does Jupyter have an ethical or social responsibility around AI tools in Jupyter. Should Jupyter have disclaimers or warnings to users around these tools?
    - These tools often already have guard rails and disclaimers themselves
    - Jupyter does not inherently have a hosting service, so does not have to worry about policies around hosting user content
    - Perhaps we add metadata (or encourage adding metadata) around the generated content
    - Is there a blog post in this? (Jason G. - yes, a blog post is about sparking community discussion, and we definitely could use some community discussion and conventions around this)
    - The AWS version of Copilot has some information about the sources
    - Perhaps we automate inserting metadata around the ai-generated content. Having an official package as a framework for using these services makes it easy to uniformly insert metadata.
    - The heart of Jupyter is talking to humans in prose and computers in code, but now we have another interactive computing partner. It's very much in the scope and experience of Jupyter. We should embrace this critically.
- Notes about governance transition
    - Some people seem to not have seen the new EC announcement, either on discourse, or on the blog.
    - Did we email the union of councils with the results? Jason Grout doesn't see an email to various council lists.
    - We will send such an email pointing people to the blog post.
    - We should repeat the message and tweet occasionally, we can also pin the message to the top
    - EC can also promote it in their social media channels: either Twitter or LinkedIn that links to the post, that will drive traffic to the announcement
- Consolidation of GitHub’s Jupyter’s Org.
    - Perhaps we have multiple orgs, but please not 13
    - Perhaps this a good question for the SSC to consider?
    - Please stop creating new github orgs until we figure this out
- Security bug bounty program offer
    - Email sent out to the subproject council lists to ask which subprojects would like to participate in a security bug bounty program funded by the European Commission, run by the Intigriti platform.
- JupyterCon update
    - Finishing reviews of talks
    - 152 proposals. Around 70 spots or so.
    - Keynote speakers and ticket prices are announced
    - Tutorials are still sort of unclear - we invited tutorial speakers, and looking at funding travel for tutorials
= Security: the security team is overwhelmed, and barely have time to respond to questions






---

## 17 Jan 2023

### Attendees
- Matthias Bussonnier
- Jason Grout
- Jason Weill
- Sharan Foga
- Steve Silvester
- Fernando Pérez
- Afshin Darian

### Agenda and minutes
- JupyterCon
    - Several keynote speakers are lined up, announced soon
    - There is a rough plan for official subproject updates to the community
    - Rough idea: gather in the morning, then split for tracks, lunch, split for tracks, then come back together before dinner. The afternoon gatherings might be a poster session, keynote, official project updates, etc.
    - Sprints probably Saturday and Sunday, so we are less reluctant to schedule things on Friday
    - CZI is launching an initiative on open source in Latin America - see Fernando about this and the building momentum in Latin America around open source
- Social media team
    - https://discourse.jupyter.org/t/monitoring-of-mentions-on-twitter/17427
        - Expectation is often that people can get a response, even a redirecting one (please go to this URL) when contacting an official account on social media
        - EC response to this thread: we're drafting on a charter for a new working group
- Confusion Jupyter/Discourse privacy policy.
- What is the process to request/ask questions to this committee outside office hours?
    - Public can post to the EC mailing list right now, but those discussions are not public.
    - Perhaps the EC has a public channel for discussion, like a team-compass or an issue on the governance repo
- Transparency reports:
    - Trademark report (number of enforcement issues, number of requests, etc.)
    - Community building committee (charter says we'll have yearly public reports, quarterly steering council reports)
    - Perhaps we have a quarterly report with one paragraph per subproject/working group
    - Apache has a monthly report from the trademarks org to the board
    - Apache also has reports from each project that follow a form with specific information
        - Parquet's reports: https://whimsy.apache.org/board/minutes/Parquet.html
        - A lot of this information is auto-generated from a tool
    - Software_subprojects.md said:
        - Conduct its activities in a manner that is open, transparent, and inclusive. This includes coordinating with the SSC and the Board of Directors on mechanisms for information flow and updates to the broader community (details of this, project-wide, will be developed as our new governance model is adopted and implemented).
    - EC yearly report
    - Maybe the SSC is responsible for bugging each projects
- Purpose for this meeting?
    - This call is open for any questions people have. If it turns out that there aren't, the EC also has items to discuss

---

## 10 Jan 2023

### Attendees
- Brian Granger
- Jason Grout
- Jason Weill
- Matthias Bussonnier
- Fernando Perez
- Sylvain Corlay
- Afshin Darian
- Steve Silvester

### Agenda and minutes
- Social media strategy (prompted by https://github.com/jupyter/governance/issues/146 and mastodon conversation)
    - Regular reminder that there is a Jupyter facebook account…
    - Should we have a social media team?
        - (not call it committee)
    - CBC is focused on events (and starting to branch out to strategically building community within subprojects)
        -   So let’s call it the event team ?
- Jupyter domain
    - Can we use the jupyter.org domain with the NumFOCUS Google Suite
- Intro blog post re: EC
- Uffizzi (uffizzi.com)  integration w/JupyterLab (broader: how do we handle a commercial vendor submitting a PR?)
    - Unless there is a jlab person that champions this, it's probably better not to do this.
This is probably a self-contained decision for JupyterLab to take up
